define raw and derivatives.md (#1537)
bids-standard/bids-specification: src/derivatives/introduction.md

meta-data sufficient for a researcher to understand and (critically) reuse those
outputs in subsequent processing.
Standardizing derivatives is motivated by use cases where formalized
machine-readable access to processed data enables higher-level processing.

The following sections cover additions to and divergences from "raw" BIDS. Raw data are
data that have been curated to BIDS, i.e. a BIDS “raw” dataset does not have another BIDS
dataset as a source. If you are in doubt if your dataset is "raw" or

> is "derivatives" ask yourself the following question: "Are my data derived from at least
> one BIDS valid dataset?" if the answer is yes, then this is a BIDS derivative dataset.

Reviewer: I think there might be need to refactor a little to not step into murky waters of derived "data" vs "dataset". 
e.g. here if to go to minimal changes for that purposes I would at least suggest
```suggestion
is "derivatives" ask yourself the following question: "Are my data derived from at least
one other valid BIDS dataset?" if the answer is yes, then this is a BIDS derivative dataset.
```
to accent on the fact that e.g. defaced images could be coming from the same BIDS dataset but we would not call it derived. Moreover some minimally preprocessed/converted data might be based on data in the same bids dataset.

Reviewer: I even wonder if we could/should provide some examples, like
- if files are minimally processed "within" the BIDS dataset (e.g. "defaced"), the dataset remains "raw"
- if a new dataset produced based on another BIDS dataset, and even if it has minimal or no changes to the files but comes from another BIDS dataset - it is a "derived dataset".

meta-data sufficient for a researcher to understand and (critically) reuse those
outputs in subsequent processing.
Standardizing derivatives is motivated by use cases where formalized
machine-readable access to processed data enables higher-level processing.

> The following sections cover additions to and divergences from "raw" BIDS. Raw data are
> data that have been curated to BIDS, i.e. a BIDS “raw” dataset does not have another BIDS
> dataset as a source. If you are in doubt if your dataset is "raw" or
> is "derivatives" ask yourself the following question: "Are my data derived from at least
> one other valid BIDS dataset?" if the answer is yes, then this is a BIDS derivative dataset.

Reviewer 2: This reads a bit too colloquially to me. How do you feel about the following?

```suggestion
The following sections cover additions to and divergences from "raw" BIDS.
Raw data are data that have been curated into BIDS from a non-BIDS source.
If a dataset is derived from at least one other valid BIDS dataset, then it is a derivative dataset.
```

Examples:

A defaced T1w image would typically be made during the curation process and is thus under raw

> `sourcedata/private/sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz`
> `sub-01/anat/sub-01_desc-defaced_T1w.nii.gz`

Reviewer 2: Using triple-ticks to make these one code block. Also, `desc-` is not permitted in raw:

````suggestion
```
sourcedata/private/sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz
sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz
```
````

A defaced T1w image could also, in theory, be derived from a BIDS dataset and would thus be under derivatives

> `sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz`
> `derivatives/sub-01/anat/sub-01_desc-defaced_T1w.nii.gz`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```
sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz
derivatives/sub-01/anat/sub-01_desc-defaced_T1w.nii.gz
```
````

meta-data sufficient for a researcher to understand and (critically) reuse those
outputs in subsequent processing.
Standardizing derivatives is motivated by use cases where formalized
machine-readable access to processed data enables higher-level processing.

The following sections cover additions to and divergences from "raw" BIDS.
Raw data are data that have been curated into BIDS from a non-BIDS source.
If a dataset is derived from at least one other valid BIDS dataset, then it is a derivative dataset.

Examples:

A defaced T1w image would typically be made during the curation process and is thus under raw

```Text
sourcedata/private/sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz
sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz
```

A defaced T1w image could also, in theory, be derived from a BIDS dataset and would thus be under derivatives

```Text
sub-01/anat/sub-01_T1w.nii.gz
derivatives/sub-01/anat/sub-01_desc-defaced_T1w.nii.gz
```

> ## Derivatives storage and folders structure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Derivatives storage and directory structure
```
